README.md, before:

![.NET on AWS Banner](./logo.png ".NET on AWS")

## Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library

**This software is in development and we do not recommend using this software in production environment.**

The [Amazon Cognito](https://aws.amazon.com/cognito/) Extension Library simplifies the authentication process of [Amazon Cognito User Pools](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-identity-pools.html) for .NET developers.

It allows you to use various authentication methods for Amazon Cognito User Pools with only a few short method calls, along with making the process intuitive.

This library targets the .NET Standard 2.0 and introduces the following dependencies:

* [AWSSDK.CognitoIdentity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.CognitoIdentity/)
* [AWSSDK.CognitoIdentityProvider](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.CognitoIdentityProvider/)


# Getting Started

To set up an AWS account and install the AWS SDK for .NET to take advantage of this library, see [Getting Started with the AWS SDK for .NET.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-net/v3/developer-guide/net-dg-setup.html) 

While this library is in development, you will need to build it manually.

Create a new project in Visual Studio and add the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library as a reference to the project.

Using the library to make calls to the Amazon Cognito Identity Provider API from the AWS SDK for .NET is as simple as creating the necessary **CognitoAuthentication** objects and calling the appropriate **AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient** methods. The principal Amazon Cognito authentication objects are:

- **CognitoUserPool** objects store information about a user pool, including the poolID, clientID, and other pool attributes.
- **CognitoUser** objects contain a user’s username, the pool they are associated with, session information, and other user properties.
- **CognitoDevice** objects include device information, such as the device key.

## Authenticating with Secure Remote Protocol (SRP)

Instead of implementing hundreds of lines of cryptographic methods yourself, you now only need to create the necessary **AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient**, **CognitoUserPool**, **CognitoUser**, and **InitiateSrpAuthRequest** objects and then call **StartWithSrpAuthAsync**:


```csharp
using Amazon.Runtime;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentityProvider;
using Amazon.Extensions.CognitoAuthentication;

public async void AuthenticateWithSrpAsync()
{
    var provider = new AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient(new AnonymousAWSCredentials(), FallbackRegionFactory.GetRegionEndpoint());
    var userPool = new CognitoUserPool("poolID", "clientID", provider);
    var user = new CognitoUser("username", "clientID", userPool, provider);

    var password = "userPassword";

    AuthFlowResponse authResponse = await user.StartWithSrpAuthAsync(new InitiateSrpAuthRequest()
    {
        Password = password
    }).ConfigureAwait(false);
}
```

The **AuthenticationResult** property of the **AuthFlowResponse** object contains the user’s session tokens if the user was successfully authenticated. If more challenge responses are required, this field is null and the **ChallengeName** property describes the next challenge, such as multi-factor authentication. You would then call the appropriate method to continue the authentication flow. 

## Authenticating with Multiple Forms of Authentication

Continuing the authentication flow with challenges, such as with **NewPasswordRequired** and **Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)**, is simpler as well. 

The following code shows one way of checking the challenge type and get the appropriate responses for MFA and NewPasswordRequired challenges during the authentication flow based on the **AuthFlowResponse** retrieved earlier:

```csharp
while (authResponse.AuthenticationResult == null)
{
    if (authResponse.ChallengeName == ChallengeNameType.NEW_PASSWORD_REQUIRED)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Enter your desired new password:");
        string newPassword = Console.ReadLine();

        authResponse = 
            await user.RespondToNewPasswordRequiredAsync(new RespondToNewPasswordRequiredRequest()
            {
                SessionID = authResponse.SessionID,
                NewPassword = newPassword
            }).ConfigureAwait(false);
    }
    else if (authResponse.ChallengeName == ChallengeNameType.SMS_MFA)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Enter the MFA Code sent to your device:");
        string mfaCode = Console.ReadLine();

        authResponse = await user.RespondToSmsMfaAuthAsync(new RespondToSmsMfaRequest()
        {
                SessionID = authResponse.SessionID,
                MfaCode = mfaCode
        }).ConfigureAwait(false);
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Unrecognized authentication challenge.");
            break;
        }
}
```

## Authenticating with Multiple Forms of Authentication

Once a user is authenticated using the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library, you can them allow them to access the specific AWS resources. 

This requires you to create an identity pool through the **Amazon Cognito Federated Identities** console.

You can also specify different roles for both unauthenticated and authenticated users to be able to access different resources. 
These roles can be changed in the IAM console where you can add or remove permissions in the “Action” field of the role’s attached policy. 

Then, using the appropriate identity pool, user pool, and Amazon Cognito user information, calls can be made to different AWS resources. The following shows a user authenticated with SRP accessing the developer’s different S3 buckets permitted by the associated identity pool’s role:

```csharp
using System;

using Amazon;
using Amazon.Runtime;
using Amazon.S3;
using Amazon.S3.Model;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentity;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentityProvider;
using Amazon.Extensions.CognitoAuthentication;

public async void GetS3BucketsAsync()
{
    var provider = new AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient(new AnonymousAWSCredentials(),
                                                            FallbackRegionFactory.GetRegionEndpoint());
    var userPool = new CognitoUserPool("poolID", "clientID", provider);
    var user = new CognitoUser("username", "clientID", userPool, provider);

    var password = "userPassword";

    await user.StartWithSrpAuthAsync(new InitiateSrpAuthRequest()
    {
        Password = password
    }).ConfigureAwait(false);

    var credentials = 
        user.GetCognitoAWSCredentials("identityPoolID", RegionEndpoint.<YourIdentityPoolRegion>);

    using (var client = new AmazonS3Client(credentials))
    {
        ListBucketsResponse response = 
            await client.ListBucketsAsync(new ListBucketsRequest()).ConfigureAwait(false);

        foreach (S3Bucket bucket in response.Buckets)
        {
            Console.WriteLine(bucket.BucketName);
        }
    }
}
```

## Other Forms of Authentication

In addition to SRP, NewPasswordRequired, and MFA, the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library offers an easier authentication flow for:

- **Custom** – Begins with a call to StartWithCustomAuthAsync(InitiateCustomAuthRequest customRequest)
- **RefreshToken** – Begins with a call to StartWithRefreshTokenAuthAsync(InitiateRefreshTokenAuthRequest refreshTokenRequest)
- **RefreshTokenSRP** – Begins with a call to StartWithRefreshTokenAuthAsync(InitiateRefreshTokenAuthRequest refreshTokenRequest)
- **AdminNoSRP** – Begins with a call to StartWithAdminNoSrpAuth(InitiateAdminNoSrpAuthRequest adminAuthRequest)

# Getting Help

We use the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/aws/aws-aspnet-cognito-identity-provider/issues) for tracking bugs and feature requests and have limited bandwidth to address them.

If you think you may have found a bug, please open an [issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-aspnet-cognito-identity-provider/issues/new)

# Contributing

We welcome community contributions and pull requests. See
[CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how to set up a development
environment and submit code.

# Additional Resources

[AWS .NET GitHub Home Page](https://github.com/aws/dotnet)  
GitHub home for .NET development on AWS. You'll find libraries, tools, and resources to help you build .NET applications and services on AWS.

[AWS Developer Center - Explore .NET on AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/language/net/)  
Find all the .NET code samples, step-by-step guides, videos, blog content, tools, and information about live events that you need in one place. 

[AWS Developer Blog - .NET](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/category/programing-language/dot-net/)  
Come see what .NET developers at AWS are up to!  Learn about new .NET software announcements, guides, and how-to's.

[@awsfornet](https://twitter.com/awsfornet)  
Follow us on twitter!

# License

Libraries in this repository are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. 

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) and [NOTICE](./NOTICE) for more information.

Commit message:

Adding learn more links and fixing issues link

README.md, after:

![.NET on AWS Banner](./logo.png ".NET on AWS")

## Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library

**This software is in development and we do not recommend using this software in production environment.**

The [Amazon Cognito](https://aws.amazon.com/cognito/) Extension Library simplifies the authentication process of [Amazon Cognito User Pools](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-identity-pools.html) for .NET developers.

It allows you to use various authentication methods for Amazon Cognito User Pools with only a few short method calls, along with making the process intuitive.

[Learn more about Amazon Cognito User Pools.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-getting-started.html)

This library targets the .NET Standard 2.0 and introduces the following dependencies:

* [AWSSDK.CognitoIdentity](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.CognitoIdentity/)
* [AWSSDK.CognitoIdentityProvider](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.CognitoIdentityProvider/)


# Getting Started

To set up an AWS account and install the AWS SDK for .NET to take advantage of this library, see [Getting Started with the AWS SDK for .NET.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-net/v3/developer-guide/net-dg-setup.html).

While this library is in development, you will need to build it manually.

Create a new project in Visual Studio and add the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library as a reference to the project.

Using the library to make calls to the Amazon Cognito Identity Provider API from the AWS SDK for .NET is as simple as creating the necessary **CognitoAuthentication** objects and calling the appropriate **AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient** methods. The principal Amazon Cognito authentication objects are:

- **CognitoUserPool** objects store information about a user pool, including the poolID, clientID, and other pool attributes.
- **CognitoUser** objects contain a user’s username, the pool they are associated with, session information, and other user properties.
- **CognitoDevice** objects include device information, such as the device key.

## Authenticating with Secure Remote Protocol (SRP)

Instead of implementing hundreds of lines of cryptographic methods yourself, you now only need to create the necessary **AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient**, **CognitoUserPool**, **CognitoUser**, and **InitiateSrpAuthRequest** objects and then call **StartWithSrpAuthAsync**:


```csharp
using Amazon.Runtime;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentityProvider;
using Amazon.Extensions.CognitoAuthentication;

public async void AuthenticateWithSrpAsync()
{
    var provider = new AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient(new AnonymousAWSCredentials(), FallbackRegionFactory.GetRegionEndpoint());
    var userPool = new CognitoUserPool("poolID", "clientID", provider);
    var user = new CognitoUser("username", "clientID", userPool, provider);

    var password = "userPassword";

    AuthFlowResponse authResponse = await user.StartWithSrpAuthAsync(new InitiateSrpAuthRequest()
    {
        Password = password
    }).ConfigureAwait(false);
}
```

The **AuthenticationResult** property of the **AuthFlowResponse** object contains the user’s session tokens if the user was successfully authenticated. If more challenge responses are required, this field is null and the **ChallengeName** property describes the next challenge, such as multi-factor authentication. You would then call the appropriate method to continue the authentication flow. 

## Authenticating with Multiple Forms of Authentication

Continuing the authentication flow with challenges, such as with **NewPasswordRequired** and **Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)**, is simpler as well. 

The following code shows one way of checking the challenge type and get the appropriate responses for MFA and NewPasswordRequired challenges during the authentication flow based on the **AuthFlowResponse** retrieved earlier:

```csharp
while (authResponse.AuthenticationResult == null)
{
    if (authResponse.ChallengeName == ChallengeNameType.NEW_PASSWORD_REQUIRED)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Enter your desired new password:");
        string newPassword = Console.ReadLine();

        authResponse = 
            await user.RespondToNewPasswordRequiredAsync(new RespondToNewPasswordRequiredRequest()
            {
                SessionID = authResponse.SessionID,
                NewPassword = newPassword
            }).ConfigureAwait(false);
    }
    else if (authResponse.ChallengeName == ChallengeNameType.SMS_MFA)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Enter the MFA Code sent to your device:");
        string mfaCode = Console.ReadLine();

        authResponse = await user.RespondToSmsMfaAuthAsync(new RespondToSmsMfaRequest()
        {
                SessionID = authResponse.SessionID,
                MfaCode = mfaCode
        }).ConfigureAwait(false);
        }
        else
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Unrecognized authentication challenge.");
            break;
        }
}
```

[Learn more about Amazon Cognito User Pool Authentication Flow.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/amazon-cognito-user-pools-authentication-flow.html)

## Authenticating with Multiple Forms of Authentication

Once a user is authenticated using the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library, you can them allow them to access the specific AWS resources. 

This requires you to create an identity pool through the **Amazon Cognito Federated Identities** console.

You can also specify different roles for both unauthenticated and authenticated users to be able to access different resources. 
These roles can be changed in the IAM console where you can add or remove permissions in the “Action” field of the role’s attached policy. 

Then, using the appropriate identity pool, user pool, and Amazon Cognito user information, calls can be made to different AWS resources. The following shows a user authenticated with SRP accessing the developer’s different S3 buckets permitted by the associated identity pool’s role:

```csharp
using Amazon;
using Amazon.Runtime;
using Amazon.S3;
using Amazon.S3.Model;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentity;
using Amazon.CognitoIdentityProvider;
using Amazon.Extensions.CognitoAuthentication;

public async void GetS3BucketsAsync()
{
    var provider = new AmazonCognitoIdentityProviderClient(new AnonymousAWSCredentials(),
                                                            FallbackRegionFactory.GetRegionEndpoint());
    var userPool = new CognitoUserPool("poolID", "clientID", provider);
    var user = new CognitoUser("username", "clientID", userPool, provider);

    var password = "userPassword";

    await user.StartWithSrpAuthAsync(new InitiateSrpAuthRequest()
    {
        Password = password
    }).ConfigureAwait(false);

    var credentials = 
        user.GetCognitoAWSCredentials("identityPoolID", RegionEndpoint.<YourIdentityPoolRegion>);

    using (var client = new AmazonS3Client(credentials))
    {
        ListBucketsResponse response = 
            await client.ListBucketsAsync(new ListBucketsRequest()).ConfigureAwait(false);

        foreach (S3Bucket bucket in response.Buckets)
        {
            Console.WriteLine(bucket.BucketName);
        }
    }
}
```

## Other Forms of Authentication

In addition to SRP, NewPasswordRequired, and MFA, the Amazon Cognito Authentication Extension Library offers an easier authentication flow for:

- **Custom** – Begins with a call to StartWithCustomAuthAsync(InitiateCustomAuthRequest customRequest)
- **RefreshToken** – Begins with a call to StartWithRefreshTokenAuthAsync(InitiateRefreshTokenAuthRequest refreshTokenRequest)
- **RefreshTokenSRP** – Begins with a call to StartWithRefreshTokenAuthAsync(InitiateRefreshTokenAuthRequest refreshTokenRequest)
- **AdminNoSRP** – Begins with a call to StartWithAdminNoSrpAuth(InitiateAdminNoSrpAuthRequest adminAuthRequest)

# Getting Help

We use the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-net-extensions-cognito/issues) for tracking bugs and feature requests and have limited bandwidth to address them.

If you think you may have found a bug, please open an [issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-net-extensions-cognito/issues/new)

# Contributing

We welcome community contributions and pull requests. See
[CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on how to set up a development
environment and submit code.

# Additional Resources

[AWS .NET GitHub Home Page](https://github.com/aws/dotnet)  
GitHub home for .NET development on AWS. You'll find libraries, tools, and resources to help you build .NET applications and services on AWS.

[AWS Developer Center - Explore .NET on AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/language/net/)  
Find all the .NET code samples, step-by-step guides, videos, blog content, tools, and information about live events that you need in one place. 

[AWS Developer Blog - .NET](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/category/programing-language/dot-net/)  
Come see what .NET developers at AWS are up to!  Learn about new .NET software announcements, guides, and how-to's.

[@awsfornet](https://twitter.com/awsfornet)  
Follow us on twitter!

# License

Libraries in this repository are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. 

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) and [NOTICE](./NOTICE) for more information.
